Please also note on every image that we have rounded corners at the top but not at the bottom and therefore
at the bottom we have normal corners,
even though theoretically, our card has rounded corners on all edges. You see this if you load a category
for the first time and the image hasn't been loaded yet,
then when you see that white box, you see rounded corners at the bottom too but thereafter once the image
is there, the normal borders of the image overlap
these rounded corners
and that is what we fixed with ClipRRect.
Now we're not fixing it on the bottom because as a next step, we'll add more content below the image as
well
and therefore the image will not take the entire height of the card or not be the only content of the
card. So let's continue working on this now,
let's continue working on our meal item.
We have the image, we're clipping its top borders and keep in mind that the image is part of a stack.
That means we can now also add another widget which sits on top of the image and that's the plan
indeed.
So on top of the image and therefore after ClipRRect but still in the widget array here or the
widget list for stack,
I want to add another widget which is placed on top of the image and that should be a text widget.
The text should of course display the title of this image here and I also want to set some style here,
not through a theme because I really will only use that style here.
I want to have a font size of let's say 26 and then also set a color which should be white. Besides
that I want to set softWrap to true so that the text, if it should be too long for the card container,
is actually wrapped and I'll set overflow to TextOverflow.fade.
So in case that it doesn't fit into its box even with wrapping, now it would just fade out and not overflow
and basically look ugly but instead it would be cropped, would be clipped in its box that is reserved
for it and just fade out
if it needs to exceed that box. Shouldn't really happen, it's just a safety mechanism.
With that, if we save this and we load Italian food, here's our text. Now that's okay
but I would want that text placed differently, not on the top left. When you're in a stack and that's
new,
we haven't done this before but when you're in a stack, you can use a special widget which really only
works inside of a stack.
You can wrap text with that widget by using the refactoring tool and wrap with new widget and the name
of that widget is positioned. Positioned allows us to position the child widget in an absolute coordinate
space and for that, we can add a couple of properties - bottom, left, right and top. So we can tell how
far away we want to be from the bottom, from the left, from the right and from the top in our stack and the
stack container itself is defined by its biggest child which here clearly is our image.
So effectively in the box of that widget here, of that image, we can now position that text and there we
could say that we want to have 20 pixels distance from the bottom and 0 pixels or 10 pixels distance
from the right to position it in the bottom right corner
and now if you save this, this text moved down there which in my opinion looks better.
So this is of course just my opinion, you can play around with that and position this differently if you
want to
but now we have the text down there.
One thing we see for example here is that
here this text still goes outside of the available box
and to prevent this, we need to make sure that this text, which is configured to fade instead of to overflow,
actually has a container that constrains it.
So let's wrap the text here into a container widget and we can now give that container a width
and I want to use a width of 250, maybe even 220 to be a a bit smaller than the image.
Also to ensure that the text is always readable even on bright background,
I'll add a background color here for the container with the color argument of colors
black 54. That's basically black but with a certain amount of transparency, to be precise with 46%
of transparency or 54% of opacity and with that if we now save this, now this looks way better,
now we have that black background.
Maybe we now want to have some padding in that container so that the text doesn't sit directly on the
edges of the container, so we can add a padding of EdgeInsets.symmetric maybe to have different padding
to top and bottom and left and right,
so vertical padding could be 5 and horizontal padding could be 20 maybe and with that saved,
this doesn't look too bad,
looks quite nice to me.
Well actually, I now ramp up the width of that container again because I of course had one mistake, the
width of the image is not 250, that's the height,
so we can certainly use more width here in the container and it will fit nicely here into our image.
So now these are the images with title on top of it,
I like that style, looks quite decent,
of course you can style this even more, add rounded corners to that text container if you want to
but I'm happy with that style.
My next step is that I of course also want to add some information below that image title thing here.
So below the image and title, so after this stack widget here which ends here but still inside of the
column widget, child array, child list here, there
I now want to add a row because now I want to have a couple of pieces of information sit next to each
other below that image. Maybe add a padding widget around the row before we continue with the row itself
to have some distance between the image,
so a padding of let's say EdgeInsets.all 20,
so 20 in all directions and then our actual row child.
Now inside of the row, we of course have children, just as we have it in a column and now
and that as always is totally up to you,
I want to have three items next to each other here.
Each item itself will be a row because each item itself will consist of two widgets and the two widgets
that make up a single item here in our outer row is an icon and then also a text.
So what's the icon?
First, I want to display the duration, so the icon should fit that
and for this, we can actually use
Icons.schedule which displays a little clock.
So that will be the icon,
now I'll also add a SizedBox between the icon and the text to have some spacing with a width of let's
say 6
and then the text here will be the duration. The duration for every meal is just a number
and in this app here, that will simply be the duration in minutes.
So here, I want to output, with string interpolation so with this dollar sign, duration
and if you only have one variable you're referring to or one property, you don't even need the curly braces
and then to also give the user some idea of what this number means, I'll add min for minutes after this.
If we save that, then we see this below our images and titles,
that's exactly what I want.
Now besides the duration, we'll have two other pieces of information.
So in that outer row here, I'll then basically copy this row which makes up a single information item
here in that row
and yes, you could therefore also extract this into a widget if you wanted to.
So here, let's repeat that
and the second piece of information I want to output here is the complexity. For that,
I think the work icon is is a good fit,
of course you can explore other icons if you have another icon you prefer
and now the question is, what is the text here?
Because remember that complexity actually is an enum and these labels here are not strings,
this is not text we can output in our app,
these are just human readable labels for us as a developer,
the actual value stored behind that is a number.
Now I certainly don't want to output a number here though, I want to output a text that makes sense to
humans.
So now we need to translate our enum labels here into text which we can output
and for this, I'll add a getter in my meal item class here, which will return a string because I want
to have the text which I output, then we need the get keyword to create a getter and I'll name it complexity
text because that is in the end what this getter derives, what it gives us. In here, we can now have a
couple of if statements to check if complexity is simple and then we output text a, if it is challenging
then we would output another text and so on. So we could have if statements like complexity, is it equal
to Complexity.Simple.
This is how we use an enum in a condition, we access the value with the dot notation and keep in mind,
complexity here is of that type,
so this stores such an enum value, such a number.
So here we compare if that storage complexity is equal to this complexity and if this is the case, we
could return simple as a text here.
Now I say could because that is a perfectly fine approach of doing it
but if you have multiple such if statements which you would have here, you would have one for challenging
and one for hard and then have different texts here,
if that's what you have, then Dart also gives you a different language feature which we haven't used
before, the switch statement. Switch statements also exist in other programming languages,
they're not exclusive to Dart and they allow you to combine multiple alternative if statements into
one single statement. For switch, you first of all define the value you want to analyze,
so in our case that's the complexity variable,
that's the part which we compared to other values in our if statement. Then you have curly braces and now
you define multiple cases with the case keyword.
Now these cases are simply the different values complexity could have,
so one case is Complexity.Simple. If complexity is of type Complexity.Simple, then with a colon, we
execute the code here below that case and that colon is important.
So then we could return simple here and even though this code will not run, it's also typical that
you add a break statement here. You need it if you don't return here, this avoids that other cases
are hit as well
but if you return, it's technically not required since you typically add it in switch case statements
though, I'll add it here too.
And now you can add your other cases like Complexity.Challenging, there I want to return challenging
and also break thereafter and then also have a case of hard here, where in that case after the colon,
I return hard and also break here and then you also typically provide a default case
which is triggered if complexity has a value you're not covering in one of your cases and the default
case here simply could be unknown or anything like that.
Now in case the break statement is not totally clear, again when you're returning you don't need it because
that will quit code execution here anyway and will not go to the next lines. If you would not return
anything but do some calculation, update some other property,
anything like that, then without break, another case could be entered as well,
for example the default case could be triggered as well
even though you already had this concrete case here.
So to avoid such strange effects, you add break to make sure that no other case is considered in this
switch case statement,
again it's redundant
if you're returning. So now we have ComplexityText here and that will just be one of these strings there
and therefore now, we can use ComplexityText as a text value down there,
so simply output ComplexityText. With that if we save this, we also see the ComplexityText here
but now we also see a problem.
These items sit way too close next to each other. Now a solution is to go to our row which holds all
these items and add main axis alignment of main axis alignment, which by the way also is an enum
built into Flutter of course, .spaceAround to use this enum value because now the items are positioned
such that empty space in the row, in that overall row below our image is split up evenly.
Side note, you now also see the bottom rounded corners because now the image is not overlapping them anymore.
So with that, let's add our last item here, our last information item and there I want to output the affordability
of this meal.
So a fitting icon could be attach_money which is this money symbol and then for outputting a text
here, we again need to transform our enum value into some human readable text and therefore, I will create
another getter here, get AffordabilityText and basically do the same as in the ComplexityText getter,
take this switch statement but now of course switch on the affordability and then compare this
to Affordability.Affordable and maybe output affordable here. Then here we could have
Affordability.Pricey
and output pricey down there and also Affordability.Luxurious and output expensive maybe, something
like this. So of course the text you returned doesn't have to match your label name, also add a colon
up here and with that, we can use the AffordabilityText in that third information item here, like that.
So this looks pretty nice to me, I'd say these are decent meals we're outputting here in our list. The
next step is to go back to navigation and make them clickable, so that on a tap onto these items, we actually
do go to the detail page for this meal where we then see it full screen and we also see all the steps
and ingredients.